Good evening, please state your name, age and weight.
Felix Nast, age 41 years, 58 kilos.
Ulrich Shultz, age 29, 71 kilos.
Hanz Berlitz, age 19, 68 kilos.
Very good.
You gentlemen are about to undergo an experiment
that will benefit the soldiers of the Soviet Union.
You will be given a gas that our nations leading
scientists have been working on.
All we know is that it is not lethal and you
will be in no physical harm throughout the
duration of the experiment.
Upon completion of this experiment.
You will be granted your freedom and returned
to your homeland.
Do you comply?
Reminder, those who do not comply will be
immediately executed for your crimes against
humanity and the Soviet Union.
I'll ask you once more gentlemen, do you comply?
Very good.
We will administer the gas in a few moments.
Please, get acquainted with your new home.
You will all notice that you have enough food
for the duration of the experiment.
You will find comfort on the floor as you
had in your cell.
Books for entertainment, a toilet for the obvious.
Also, no one will be entering the room once
the gas has been released so it is up to you
to keep your living quarters, liveable.
The gas has been administered.
Sure is different on the other side of the gas.
Day one, the first batch of gas has been released.
Normal behaviour resumes.
Boy, your name is Hanz?
Yes.
Well Hanz, it is so nice to see the face of
the boy who has been crying in the cell next
to me the past three months.
Oh come on now, don't you think we should
all be friends while we are here?
Let me guess, your father was a good hard
working man taken too soon.
Your mother was a housekeeper.
And you were the youngest of four children,
the runt of the pack.
You joined the war to prove something of yourself
only to end up a victim of circumstance.
Am I right?
I was the youngest of three children.
Ah, I was close.
What about you, Ulrich is it?
Well Hanz, I will tell you my story if you
tell me yours.
Ok.
Well, I was a top SS scientist specialising
in information extraction and experimentation.
I took great pride in my work.
It was almost therapeutic.
I can still see the faces of the men.
I extracted fingernails, teeth.
How quickly they would rat out their own families
to save their lives.
Ah, such lowly dogs.
Your turn.
I was stationed just outside of Berlin.
I didn't see much of the war, just the end of it.
I was appointed guard duty one night,
and I was supposed to stay awake for the
duration of the night, but I fell asleep.
When I awoke, everyone was slaughtered.
I ran as fast and as far as I could but they
caught me. Took me to a prison where I sat
for three months until I ended up here.
I thought as much.
Whats your story?
The gas has been active for four days, and
although none of them have slept for the past
four days, normal behaviour resumes.
The gas seems to be quite effective.
These anatomy books are embarrassingly inaccurate.
It is no wonder these Russians are so barbaric.
They killed your father, didn't they?
Bitte!
Ulrich Shultz!
Ulrich!
Put Felix Nast down now or we will end
the experiment and you will be shot!
Stop this or they will shoot you!
You talk too much.
Ulrich!
The gas has been active for seven days.
Normal behaviour resumes outside of the
outburst on day four.
The men have still yet to sleep.
Time for some personal business.
Hey, what happened the other day?
I almost killed Felix.
What's happened with you?
You know what I mean.
No one intervened.
No one stopped you.
You just, you just looked at the wall and
dropped him.
What did you see?
Look, at least tell me your story.
Everyone's got a story.
I was a soldier, and like you,
not a very good one.
I wasn't cruel in what I did but what I
stood for was damning enough, I suppose.
What we all stood for was damning enough.
I was stationed at a camp, a labour camp.
My father was the commanding officer of the
camp.
He was a good man as I remember from my
childhood, but something… changed in him.
I went to his office one day to deliver a
daily report.
I opened the door and he had his back turned to me.
I called to him but he didn't answer.
He just put the barrel of his Luger and he…
If there was one thing I could have
asked him it would be why?
Was it fear, was it remorse, was it grief?
That's why I tried…
Ulrich, I don't know how much
more of this I can take.
I haven't slept in days.
None of us have.
It must be what the gas does.
It keeps you awake.
They're going to use it on their soldiers
so they don't require sleep.
I can't do this anymore.
I can't breathe in my own skin.
I have to get out of here.
Just think of your freedom, that's
what's keeping me going.
You really think we'll be gifted freedom after this?
Day 12, Hanz has been screaming for the past 7 hours.
What seems strange is that the other
men have not reacted in anyway.
Hanz has been screaming now for the past 12 hours.
His screams have been replaced with a faint
whimper. It seems he has permanently destroyed
his vocal cords.
Sleep Experiment day 12 June 14th 1945, end log.
Ah, Felix.
You've come to say hello?
Felix, Felix, Felix…
What are you thinking Felix?
That's why you're in there, and I'm out here.
Felix, Felix, Felix…
Sleep Experiment, day 15.
Day 15…
Sleep Experiment.
Felix! I demand the papers removed from the window!
Felix!
Remove the paper!
Day 15, Felix has covered the port window
with paper from the book in what appears to
be his own excrement.
Strange noises have been coming from inside
the cell, but the oxygen levels show that the
men are still awake and alive.
I'm not sure how much longer the experiment can go on.
Experiment day 15, June 17th 1945.
Gentlemen, the experiment is over.
We are turning off the gas and opening the chamber.
Stand back against the wall or you will be shot.
Upon examination you will be freed.
We no longer wish to be freed.
Day 20 of the Sleep Experiment.
Upon opening the chamber it became clear the
level of mental damage caused by the gas.
The men have ripped into their own flesh.
The amount of blood lost by the three
men should have killed them all.
Hanz was rushed to the emergency room.
He tried to utter words but his torn vocal
cords allowed only a weak whisper.
After fighting to stay awake under the anaesthesia,
he died on the operating table,
11:45 PM.
Felix was sent to the emergency room. He begged
to be put back on the gas and screamed in
agonising pain when we brought the anaesthesia
anywhere near him.
We then attempted the surgery without it.
He died the second his eyes closed from fatigue,
12:14 AM.
I left Ulrich in the chamber to be alone with me.
I needed answers.
Ulrich, what happened?
What did you do?
Hell could not wait for these men.
The doctor sicker than his patients.
The boy allowing his own kind to perish
on account of his own negligence.
The man who blindly follows evil
for the sake of convenience.
Without the fortitude of unconsciousness,
all men will share this fate.
What are you?
I'm awake.
Whether or not you believe these men
deserve this fate is irrelevant.
No man can decide this.
I only hope the world will forgive
my part in this experiment.
What these men did will be forever written in
history but I can still erase what I've done.
End log, June 22nd 1945.